Rappaccini's Daughter
A YOUNG man, named Giovanni Guasconti, came, very long ago, from the more
southern region of Italy, to pursue his studies at the University of Padua. Giovanni, who
had but a scanty supply of gold ducats in his pocket, took lodgings in a high and gloomy
chamber of an old edifice, which looked not unworthy to have been the palace of a
Paduan noble, and which, in fact, exhibited over its entrance the armorial bearings of a
family long since extinct. The young stranger, who was not unstudi ed in the great poem
of his country, recollected that one of the ancestors of this family, and perhaps an
occupant of this very mansion, had been pictured by Dante as a partaker of the immortal
agonies of his Inferno. These reminiscences and associations, together with the tendency
to heart-break natural to a young man for the first time out of his native sphere, caused
Giovanni to sigh heavily, as he looked around the desolate and ill - furnished apartment.
"Holy Virgin, signor," cried old dame Lisabetta, who, won by the youth's remarkable
beauty of person, was kindly endeavoring to give the chamber a habitable air, "what a
sigh was that to come out of a young man's heart! Do you find this old mansion gloomy?
For the love of heaven, then, put your head out of the window, and you will see as bright
sunshine as you have left in Naples."
Guasconti mechanically did as the old woman advised, but could not quite agree with her
that the Lombard sunshine was as cheerful as that of southern Italy. Such as it was,
however, it fell upon a garden beneath the window, and expended its fostering influences
on a variety of plants, which seemed to have been cultivated with exceeding care.
"Does this garden belong to the house?" asked Giovanni.
"Heaven forbid, signor!--unless it were fruitful of better pot -herbs than any that grow
there now," answered old Lisabetta. "No; that garden is cultivated by the own hands of
Signor Giacomo Rappaccini, the famous Doctor, who, I warrant him, has been heard of
as far as Naples. It is said h e distils these plants into medicines that are as potent as a
charm. Oftentimes you may see the Signor Doctor at work, and perchance the Signora his
daughter, too, gathering the strange flowers that grow in the garden."
The old woman had now done what she could for the aspect of the chamber, and,
commending the young man to the protection of the saints, took her departure.
Giovanni still found no better occupation than to look down into the garden beneath his
window. From its appearance, he judged it to be one of those botanic gardens, which
were of earlier date in Padua than elsewhere in Italy, or in the world. Or, not improbably,
it might once have been the pleasure -place of an opulent family; for there was the ruin of
a marble fountain in the centre, scul ptured with rare art, but so wofully shattered that it
was impossible to trace the original design from the chaos of remaining fragments. The
water, however, continued to gush and sparkle into the sunbeams as cheerfully as ever. A
little gurgling sound ascended to the young man's window, and made him feel as if a
fountain were an immortal spirit, that sung its song unceasingly, and without heeding the
vicissitudes around it; while one century embodied it in marble, and another scattered the
perishable garniture on the soil. All about the pool into which the water subsided, grew
various plants, that seemed to require a plentiful supply of moisture for the nourishment
of gigantic leaves, and, in some instances, flowers gorgeously magnificent. There was
one shrub in particular, set in a marble vase in the midst of the pool, that bore a profusion
of purple blossoms, each of which had the lustre and richness of a gem; and the whole
together made a show so resplendent that it seemed enough to illuminate the garden, even
had there been no sunshine. Every portion of the soil was peopled with plants and herbs,
which, if less beautiful, still bore tokens of assiduous care; as if all had their individual
virtues, known to the scientific mind that fostered them. Some were placed in urns, rich
with old carving, and others in common garden-pots; some crept serpent -like along the
ground, or climbed on high, using whatever means of ascent was offered them. One plant
had wreathed itself round a statue of Vertumnus, which was th us quite veiled and
shrouded in a drapery of hanging foliage, so happily arranged that it might have served a
sculptor for a study.
While Giovanni stood at the window, he heard a rustling behind a screen of leaves, and
became aware that a person was at wor k in the garden. His figure soon emerged into
view, and showed itself to be that of no common laborer, but a tall, emaciated, sallow,
and sickly looking man, dressed in a scholar's garb of black. He was beyond the middle
term of life, with gray hair, a thi n gray beard, and a face singularly marked with intellect
and cultivation, but which could never, even in his more youthful days, have expressed
much warmth of heart.
Nothing could exceed the intentness with which this scientific gardener examined every
shrub which grew in his path; it seemed as if he was looking into their inmost nature,
making observations in regard to their creative essence, and discovering why one leaf
grew in this shape, and another in that, and wherefore such and such flowers differed
among themselves in hue and perfume. Nevertheless, in spite of the deep intelligence on
his part, there was no approach to intimacy between himself and these vegetable
existences. On the contrary, he avoided their actual touch, or the direct inhaling of t heir
odors, with a caution that impressed Giovanni most disagreeably; for the man's demeanor
was that of one walking among malignant influences, such as savage beasts, or deadly
snakes, or evil spirits, which, should he allow them one moment of license, wo uld wreak
upon him some terrible fatality. It was strangely frightful to the young man's imagination,
to see this air of insecurity in a person cultivating a garden, that most simple and innocent
of human toils, and which had been alike the joy and labor o f the unfallen parents of the
race. Was this garden, then, the Eden of the present world? --and this man, with such a
perception of harm in what his own hands caused to grow, was he the Adam?
The distrustful gardener, while plucking away the dead leaves or pruning the too
luxuriant growth of the shrubs, defended his hands with a pair of thick gloves. Nor were
these his only armor. When, in his walk through the garden, he came to the magnificent
plant that hung its purple gems beside the marble fountain, he p laced a kind of mask over
his mouth and nostrils, as if all this beauty did but conceal a deadlier malice. But finding
his task still too dangerous, he drew back, removed the mask, and called loudly, but in the
infirm voice of a person affected with inward disease:
"Beatrice!--Beatrice!"