The moment Nora stepped out of the train she regretted her decision. The large open space she had entered was filled with people, far more than she had thought. She couldn’t see much of the ship from here just a large slab of metal splattered with panels and equipment and several large open doors. This was one of two entrances with the other being on the far side of the vessel. A hundred people hadn’t sounded like much, especially after seeing the size of the ship she would be spending the next year of her life on. Nora had thought she would have plenty of space to herself. She could already tell how wrong she was. It wasn’t even the number of people, most of whom were government officials and dock workers, but more the other passengers were what gave Nora concern. She could tell who were passengers by their clothing, official “crew uniforms” designed by the organisers to “promote unity.” Anyone wearing a dark grey jacket with a thick blue stripe on the left breast side was going on the Argonaut with her.

               They were just so… eager. Milling about, talking to everyone, pointing and directing luggage around like they’re someone important. It looked like most of the passengers were entering from the same dock but most of the people here were officials checking the ship’s systems or the traveller’s luggage and identification. One of them walked over to her and she quickly got rid of him, flashing her ID and explaining she had no more luggage then the bag she held. Others weren’t having as much of an easy time, the dock was filled with noise. This isn’t what Nora expected at all.

               It was about three months ago that she heard about the experiment. The government boasted that soon the Verian Empire would have deep-space colonies throughout the known galaxy, expanding beyond the limitations of habitable planets the Empire had already exhausted, and even satellites and starbases. They revealed a new class of starship: the 313, deep-space class vessel. Concern grew, however, about deep space living. Even satellite and starbase workers returned home every few months to avoid physical and mental issues but to live permanently in space? To eat and use only what they grow themselves? Surely there would be problems. So to quell the public fear they designed an experiment, sending a hundred people out on a 313 alone for a year with no communication from the Empire, or family. No control over where the ship goes, just a year existing in space.

There were three ships, five were completed, but they didn’t want to risk them all. The Argonaut was colour-coded blue, the Paralus green, and the Olympius red. There was the option of randomly choosing participants but in the end the Empire had more than enough volunteers. There was a short and random selection project for the experiment. The only requirements were an expected lifespan of at least a year and basic physical and mental health. There were many reasons Nora could think of to join such an experiment, free accommodation, escape from overcrowded lower class colonies, adventure of for the challenge. For Nora it was all about solitude.

               No matter where you went there was always people, and in the over-populated Verian Empire that was just a fact of life. Even at the job she found sorting old files into new systems she was surprised to find she shared a small office with two other people. Nora spent most of her time working from home. Even then thought the three-room apartment was shared with three other people. There was just not enough space. She had spent the last few years living on a mid-sector planet named Archania c, far enough away from the capital to avoid large events and traffic but not too far as to be in dangerous territory. Even then it was packed with people, every planet was, it had been five centuries since they colonised the last empty habitable planet and a few decades since they gave up on the space colony program, sort of. Even the ship ride there was packed, no vessel capable of jumping sectors was private except for the ones used by the government or military.

               So the opportunity to disappear for a year and be alone on a space ship? Perfect. And even if there were another ninety-nine people on board the Argonaut was big enough to hold three times as many and still have space to spare. But as Nora looked around at the others on the dock she worried privacy might not be their priority. Nora was good at reading people, she could get a sense of person just by looking at them and an even better sense by seeing how they interact. The most prominent presence was a women in her late-thirties, just younger than Nora, arguing loudly with the workers over how they handled her luggage. Nora could tell from the luggage and the woman’s clothes she was used to high-class treatment. This woman was the kind of person who never grew past three, a brat. Nora wondered why she agreed to come on the experiment in the first place, perhaps an adventurous husband had brought her along. Or perhaps those who knew her found it the only way to get rid of her.

               Nora quickly walked past the commotion, and tried to find someone that gave her hope for the next year. There was a small young man, probably in his late teens, who looked terrified of everything and kept making quick glances to the exit as if looking for an escape. There was another woman with a pleasant look on her face in a conversation with an emphatic man who was gesturing wildly. There was a quick flash in her eyes every now and then that gave Nora the impression she was seriously considering throwing him off the docks. Nora was considering whether to try and save the poor woman when another man brushed past her, rushing off towards the entrance. He wasn’t wearing a jacket but he was running towards the open doors. From the brief encounter Nora got a good look at his face. Bright eyes, clear skin, perfect hair, and a cheeky smile that gave Nora the impression that he was exactly the kind of smug, entitled, upper-class idiot she had hoped to avoid. She decided it was time to board the Argonaut, find the emptiest corner and stay there for a year. However, as she got closer she saw another passenger. A man with a pristine uniform and large glasses, arguing with an official about his luggage. Nora considered ignoring it but her empathetic instincts, and the knowledge that she would have to talk to people at some point in the next year, made her walk over.

               The government official was large and intimidating, and Nora had to admit she was impressed the smaller man was standing up for himself. As she got closer she could hear them. “You were told before, only one large suitcase allowed, no exceptions,” the official explained for what sounded like the hundredth time

               “You don’t understand,” the other passenger pleaded, wringing his hands, “I can’t spend a year with only half of this stuff, its important!” He sounded to Nora a bit selfish, no one else brought too much luggage, but she got a good vibe from him, and he sounded less like he thought himself better than others and more like he was put in an impossible situation. “Is everything alright?” She said at a distance

               “Um…” the passenger ran his hands through his hair, the wild mop his only un-groomed feature, “yeah, yeah I’m fine, uh… thank you”

               “He’s trying to bring double the allowed luggage,” the official told her, exaggerating the severity

               “No he’s not,” Nora said innocently

               “What?” the two man spoke simultaneously

               “This one’s mine,” Nora played the fool, grabbing the handle of one suitcase which was much heavier than she had anticipated

               “Fine whatever, just get on board,” the official relented

               “Uh, thanks,” the passenger struggling with the heavy luggage until the official sighed with frustration and grabbed it out of his hands.

               Nora stifled a laugh before heading towards the door, pulling ‘her’ luggage behind her. The other man running to catch up, “I’m Isaac by the way,” he tried to make eye contact, and failed

               “Nice to meet you Isaac. You’ve got this right?” She handed him his suitcase, which he almost dropped. She began to walk away, and he would’ve followed but the heavy luggage anchored him, “I didn’t get your name!”

               “I know”

…

               The Argonaut was one of the largest ships the Empire had ever built, larger even than the massive Flagship-class vessels that patrol the galaxy. But it was not a military vessel, it was designed for civilians, farmers and the homeless. However saying it was one ship was not entirely accurate as it technically came in two parts. The engines and piloting systems were in a long section through the centre of a large ring. The majority of the ship’s space was in this ring connected to the centre by three elevator shafts. On three different sections the ring became thicker with each section with a different function, farming, living quarters, and storage and docking. This ring sat slightly behind the centre ship and had a separate power source capable of lasting far longer than the other. The centre ship being designed to dock more frequently than the full vessel as well as to serve as emergency defence while the more vulnerable ring stayed behind. Each model 313 ship was currently docked on Veria c, the second planet orbiting the Empire’s main star besides the capital. From here each ship would weave a path through the different sections, nebula and colonies of the Empire, testing both the ships’ capabilities as well as the crew’s mental and physical health.

               As Lt. Commander Malcolm Pearson looked out at the Argonaut he felt both envy and relief. Envy that he wasn’t making history in joining this adventure, and relief that he wasn’t going to be stuck on a non-military ship with strangers for a year. He had a duty to do after all, he was the Executive Officer, the second-in-command aboard the pride of the Verian fleet, the 310 Flagship-class Alcaeus. It was an impressive post, especially for someone of his age, but he and his brother had been groomed for military from childhood and he had excelled at that calling. Usually the ship would be out patrolling the Veil or keeping an eye on the at-times-rebellious outer systems like Eutropia. They’d been called back to the Veria system to oversee the launch. This experiment involved the regular populace, and was a sign of the future of the Empire, a test of its power. Which made it a prime target for what little resistance the people gave. They were small in number, and had no real victories or power to stand behind, in truth the only resistance they give is not being wiped out yet, but it wouldn’t be long as the full force of the Empire was searching for them. Malcolm had few run-ins with the rebellion and he had no sympathy for their cause, and no respect for their power. One day he hoped to be known as the Captain who hunted down those that remained, that would put his name in the history books.

               Malcolm heard his commanding officer, Captain Orion, join him next to the window. Malcolm had only worked with him for a few months, but he had heard stories of the fierce Captain Orion and the Alcaeus for years. He was the one who had kept order in the outer systems for more than 20 years, and who had ensured the rebellion was in the state they were in. He had never lost a skirmish, and never took a break. He was known for saying that his job would never be over as the Empire was only as strong as its military. “No issues yet?” the Captain asked stoically

               “None, sir,” Malcolm replied, in the few months of working with the man Malcolm had developed a strong respect for him, even more than he had for the legend he had heard during training.

               “Good, it’s almost fully boarded. It won’t be long, be ready,” the Captain walked away and left Malcolm to his thoughts. The Alcaeus was to follow the Argonaut out of the system for the first few days ensuring there were no malfunctions or pirates waiting to seize control. There weren’t many pirate vessels in Empire space, especially this close the capital. Even then the ships they piloted were rarely anything more than merchant or transport ships modified with crude weapons. Some deployed explosives through airlocks, others acted as battering rams with spikes attached to their hull. For groups like these the Argonaut would be an enticing target, a way to live a life outside the crowded Empire colonies. Away from the watchful eye of the Inquisitors. However, the Alcaeus could not follow the Argonaut for their whole journey. Not because of a lack of resources but as a condition of the experiment. In truth the experiment would begin in earnest when the two ships parted ways and the passengers began living their lives without government oversight and guidance. Because of the risks involved the ships’ paths through space were a closely guarded secrets. Even the passengers themselves didn’t know where they were headed. Only the highest government officials were privy to that information and Captain Orion was one of them.

               “Sir,” an officer interrupted Malcolm’s train of thought, “the ship is ready to launch”

               “Alright,” he nodded, “warm up the engines, get ready to follow.”

               The Argonaut’s engines roared to life, blue fumes ignited as the enormous vessel, the largest the dock had ever held, began to slowly move forward. A ship like this would rarely dock again, it would be too cumbersome. One wrong move and half the city would go up in flames. As Malcolm stared down at the ship leaving orbit, Nora stared through the small window in the docking bay door. Some part of her hoped that she would miss the crowded cities of the Empire, that she had something to miss. But all she really felt as the buildings grew rapidly smaller was that this year could not go by slowly enough.