The Master of Works led them to the interior of Skade’s comet, halting inside a modest viewing blister set into the interior wall of the hollowed-out body. Hermetically sealed from the blister was the comet’s main chamber, in a vacuum so high-grade that even the mild vapors leaking from the Conjoiner suits would have caused an unacceptable degradation.

Clavain stared into the chamber. Beyond the glass was a cavern of dizzying scale. It was bathed in rapturous blue light, filled with vast machines and an almost subliminal sense of scurrying activity. For a moment the scene was far too much to take in.

Then all too soon he grasped the scale of things and realized with a perceptual jolt that he was looking into a vast manufactory of sorts, where distant machines toiled with an inhuman efficiency: droves of sterile construction servitors traversing the vacuum by the thousand as they went about their tasks. They communicated with each other using lasers, and it was the scatter and reflection of those beams that drenched the chamber in such shivering blue radiance. And it was indeed cold, Clavain knew. Dotted around the walls of the chamber he recognized the nubbed black cones of cryo-arithmetic engines, calculating overtime to suck away the heat of intense industrial activity that would otherwise have boiled the comet away.

Clavain’s attention flicked to the reason for all that activity. He was not surprised to see the ships - not even surprised to see that they were starships - but the degree to which they had been completed astonished him. He had been expecting half-finished hulks, but he could not believe that these ships were far from flight-readiness. There were twelve of them packed side by side in clouds of geodesic support scaffolding. They were identical shapes, smooth and black as torpedoes, barbed near the rear with the outflung spars and nacelles of Conjoiner drives. Though their form differed little from the absurdly streamlined standard profile of most lighthuggers, he was certain that each of the ships was incubating capabilities no lighthugger was reasonably expected to match.

Skade smiled, obviously noting his reaction. [Impressed?]

Very. Truth be told, he was more curious than impressed.

[Now you understand why the Master was so concerned about the risk of an unintentional weapons discharge, or even a powerplant overload. Of course, you’re wondering why we’ve started building them again.]

Would the wolves have anything to do with it, by any chance?

[Perhaps you should tell me why you think we ever stopped making them.]

Skade, I returned to the Mother Nest only two decades ago. I’ve been too busy fighting the war to mull these decisions over.

[Still, you’re an intelligent man. You must have formed a few theories of your own.]

For a moment Clavain thought of telling her that the matter had never really concerned him; that the decision to stop making starships had happened when he was in deep space, a fait accompli by the time he returned, and - given the immediate need to help his side win the war - not the most pressing issue at hand.

But that would have been a lie. It had always troubled him.

Generally it’s assumed that we stopped making them for selfish economic reasons, or because we were worried that the drives were falling into the wrong hands - Ultras and other undesirables. Or that we discovered a fatal flaw in the design that meant that the drives had a habit of exploding now and again.

[Yes, and there are at least half a dozen other theories in common currency, ranging from the faintly plausible to the ludicrously paranoid. What was your understanding of the reason?]

We’d only ever had a stable customer relationship with the Demarchists. The Ultras bought their drives off second- or third-hand sources, or stole them. But once our relationship with the Demarchists began to deteriorate, which happened when the Melding Plague crashed their economy, we lost our main client. They couldn’t afford our technology, and we weren’t willing to sell it to a faction that showed increasing signs of hostility.

[A very pragmatic answer, Clavain.]

I never saw any reason to look for any deeper explanation.

[There is, of course, quite a grain of truth in that. Economic and political factors did play a role. But there was something else. It can’t have escaped your attention that our own internal shipbuilding programme has been much reduced.]

Yes, but I assumed that it was no longer a priority for us. We’ve had a war to fight and we have enough ships for our needs as it is.

[True, but even those ships have not been active. Routine interstellar traffic has been greatly reduced. Travel between Conjoiner settlements in other systems has been cut back to a minimum.]

Again, effects of a war—

[Had remarkably little to do with it, other than providing a convenient cover story.]

Cover story?

[Had the real reason ever come out, there would have been widespread panic across the whole of human-settled space. The socio-economic turmoil would have been incomparably greater than anything caused by the present war.]

Tell me.

[You were right, in a sense. It was to do with the wolves, Clavain.]

He shook his head. It can’t have been.

[Why not?]

Because we didn’t learn about the wolves until Galiana returned. And Galiana didn’t encounter them until after we separated. Both of these events predate the edict to stop shipbuilding by a significant margin, Skade.

Skade’s helmet nodded a fraction. [That’s true, in a sense. Certainly, it wasn’t until Galiana’s return that the Mother Nest obtained any detailed intelligence concerning the nature of the machines. But the fact that the wolves existed - the fact that they were out there - that was already known, many years before.]

I don’t follow. Galiana was the first to encounter them.

[No. She was merely the first to make it back alive - or at least the first to make it back in any sense at all. Before that, there had only been distant reports, mysterious instances of ships vanishing, the odd distress signal. Over the years the Closed Council collated these reports and came to the conclusion that the wolves, or something like the wolves, was stalking interstellar space. That was bad enough, yet there was an even more disturbing conclusion, one that led to the edict. The pattern of losses pointed to the fact that the machines, whatever they were, homed in on a specific signature from our engines. We concluded that the wolves were drawn to us by the tau-neutrino emissions that are a characteristic of our drives.]

How?

[How what?]

How was it concluded that the wolves were drawn to us by the tau-neutrino emissions of our drives?

[I can’t be certain, but it appears as all wolf attacks happened in interstellar space, along the more regular trade routes.]

He felt his irritation rising. There had to be more that Skade wasn’t disclosing. And that was enough for us to give up on building starships for good? And, more importantly, why haven’t the rest of humanity been notified? There have to be at least a few thousand Conjoiner drives still in regular use within human space if memory serves. Are th-

[Clavain, this isn’t even known to most Conjoiners, save for those in the Closed Council. Releasing this data would’ve done more harm than good.]

Look around you, Skade. We’re already fighting a war with our erstwhile allies.

Skade flicked her wrist dismissively. [Yes, and we’re winning.]

Clavain looked away, his frustration easily palpable. What now?

[When Galiana returned we knew we’d been right. All our fears had been confirmed. Therefore, this.] Skade gestured towards the main chamber.

The wolves are still out there.

[Yes, they’ve always been out there, hiding in the darkness, watching and waiting. For four centuries we’ve been extremely lucky, stumbling through the night, making noise and light, broadcasting our presence into the galaxy. I think in some ways they must be blind, or that there are certain kinds of signal they filter from their perceptions. They never homed in on our radio or television transmissions, for instance, or else they would have scented us en masse centuries ago. That hasn’t happened yet. Perhaps they are designed only to respond to the unmistakable signs of a starfaring culture, rather than a merely technological one. Speculation, of course, but what else can we do but speculate?]

Then Skade reached into his head and planted an image. What she showed him was pitiless blackness studded by a smattering of faint, feeble stars. The stars did nothing to nullify the darkness, serving only to make it more absolute and cold. This was how Skade now perceived the cosmos, as ultimately inimical to life as an acid bath. But between the stars was something other than emptiness. The machines lurked in those spaces, preferring the darkness and the cold. Skade made him experience the cruel flavour of their intelligence. It made the thought processes of the Master of Works seem comforting and friendly. There was something bestial in the way the machines thought, a furious slavering hunger that would eclipse all other considerations.

A feral, ravenous bloodlust.

Clavain looked at the twelve brand-new starships again. And now? Why start shipbuilding again?

[Because now we can. Nightshade was a prototype for these twelve much larger ships. They have quiet drives. With certain refinements in drive topology we were able to reduce the tau-neutrino flux by two orders of magnitude. Far from perfect, but it should allow us to resume interstellar travel without immediate fear of bringing down the wolves. The technology will, of course, have to remain strictly within Conjoiner control.]

What of the rest of humanity?

Remontoire, silent for so long, joined the conversation now. [We still have time. Maybe a few decades at most. Once the war starts winding down, there will be efforts-]

Skade turned towards Clavain and interjected. [And if we don’t have the time, these dozen will have to do. With the war on, this is the best we could do.]

I still don’t understand why we’ve suddenly begun shipbuilding again.

[As a purely precautionary measure, should we need them.]

Clavain studied the ships again. Even if each ship only had the capacity to carry fifty or sixty thousand sleepers - and they looked capable of carrying far more than that - Skade’s fleet would have sufficed to carry nearly half the population of the Mother Nest.

He looked at the ships, and focused on the drives. From his vantage point, little difference could be discerned between these and their regular counterparts, save for a larger profile. How many can they carry?

[Barely enough. However, we’re reasonably certain that there’s enough time to build more. Perhaps many more.]

Let’s hope that your estimates are correct, then. But what of the old ships that are still being used?

[We’ve done what we can. Closed Council agents have succeeded in regaining control of a number of outlaw vessels. These ships were destroyed, of course: we can’t use them either, and existing drives can’t be safely converted to the stealthed design.]

They can’t?

Into Clavain’s mind Skade tossed the image of a small planet, perhaps a moon, with a huge bowl-shaped chunk gouged out of one hemisphere, glowing cherry-red.

[They can’t.]

Has this information been disclosed to the Ultras, at the least?

Behind the visor of her crested helmet she smiled tolerantly. [Clavain, Clavain. Always so willing to believe in the greater good of humanity. I find your attitude heartening, I really do. But what good would disclosure serve? Like I said, this information is already too sensitive to share even with the majority of the Conjoined.]

He wanted to argue but he knew she was correct. It was decades since any utterance from the Conjoiners had been taken at face value. Even a warning as bluntly urgent as that would be assumed to have duplicitous intent.

[Do you understand the gravity behind your mission to Delta Pavonis now? We need the hell-class weapons, Clavain. Two of the ships plus the prototype will constitute a taskforce for the recovery operation. They will be armed with the most advanced weapons in our arsenal, and will contain recently developed technologies of a tactically advantageous nature.]

Like, I suppose, the systems you were testing?

[Certain further tests must still be performed, but yes.]

Skade unhitched herself. ’Master of Works - we’re done here for now. My guests have seen enough. What is your most recent estimate for when the ships will be flight ready?’

The servitor, which had folded and entwined its appendages into a tight bundle, swiveled its head to address her. ‘Sixty-one days, eight hours and thirteen minutes.’

‘Thank you. Be sure to do all you can to accelerate that schedule. Clavain won’t want to be detained a moment, will you?’

“Most certainly not”, he said, with little belief behind his words. To say that he disagreed with what the Closed Council had planned would be an understatement, but he begrudgingly admitted that their options were limited. He would need to resolve this; and he would, somehow.

‘Please follow me,’ said the Master of Works, flicking a limb towards the exit. It was anxious to lead them back to the surface.

The journey back towards the surface of the comet seemed to take much longer than the trip down had, and Clavain used this time productively, concentrating purely on the mechanics of the task in hand. The Master of Works bustled ahead of them, straddling the tunnel bore, picking its way along it with fastidious care. The servitor’s mood was impossible to read, but Clavain had the impression that it was very glad to be done with the three of them. It had been programmed to tend the operations here with zealous protectivity, and Clavain could not help but admire the grudging way it had entertained them. He had dealt with many robots and servitors in his lifetime, and they had been programmed with many superficially convincing personalities. But this was the first one that had seemed genuinely resentful of human company.

Halfway along the route to the comet's surface, Clavain realized what had to be done.