– Earth Days: 001 –

Alec can’t breathe.

Even through the water condensed around his ears, he can hear an alarm faintly blaring, its accompanying words too garbled for him to make sense of. Coming out of cryo-sleep is supposed to be disorienting, similar to what the brain goes through when succumbing to hypothermia, only set in reverse. He’d been briefed on it exhaustively during training, but at no point did they warn him about possible asphyxiation. Not unless there has been a significant malfunction on the ship that has been caused by a power outage and not unless the back-up generators have also been affected, but Alec figures if that is what’s actually happening at the moment, the ship should be well on its way to crashing or exploding.

What is the point of even waking up?

His eyes slide open, trying to peer through the dense water to see through the clear glass around him, but all he can make out are oscillating red lights overhead, and all he can feel is the ship rumbling chaotically around him, tempting him to close his eyes once more. Maybe there’s no way out of this situation, and fighting it would only stave off the inevitable.

His muscles start to relax in the small chamber, bubbles fleeing his mouth as he exhales outwards, before he feels the ship give a particularly violent shudder.

“You’ve been assigned to be captain of the Urania-O. You are the only one in the crew with any formal military training.”

Sergeant Penhallow’s words echo back at him as shadows start to drift across his consciousness, still seducing him to yield once more to an endless slumber. He was supposed to wake up once they arrived at their destination. Not before it.

“You’re also the only aerospace engineer on board. We’re entrusting you to guide the passengers to safety if anything goes wrong.”

Nothing was supposed to go wrong. Alec had performed all system checks in routine order several times long before they left Earth. He made sure every last wire had been in place; had taken the ship on numerous manual test flights; had verified the cryo-pods wouldn’t accidentally be triggered into thawing by random turbulence before they’d reach their destination; had even hand-picked their navigation droid. Only an extreme emergency should have woken him up, which he’s well aware this might be.

If that’s the case, he really is the only one who can fix this, and he’s simply losing time by allowing his mind to drift and drift, floating as aimless as the ship might be in space right now, instead of waking up and taking care of the problem. The issue could just be a matter of a panel loose somewhere, bolts that need tightening, any number of possibilities that are easily repairable. A quick space walk is all it would take, and none of the passengers would be any wiser. He’d been subjected to all sorts of scenarios during training and had cleared them all without problem, so there’s nothing to be afraid of.

Okay, stay calm.

He has to think through this. He at least knows something is wrong with his cryo-pod. The whole chamber should have drained of water, and the pod door should have automatically opened upwards the moment it detected he was awake. It’s hooked up to his vitals and set to respond the second it registers any physical changes that suggest he’d somehow fallen out of REM sleep.

There is an emergency release from inside as a back-up, one on the interior part of the door that he presses to open it. When it doesn’t immediately respond, he starts banging hard on the glass above him, hands balled into fists, his sore, unused muscles groaning with each movement. It still doesn’t budge, and Alec feels his lungs burn with the effort to keep holding his breath, his body starved for air. The ache sinks all the way to his belly, making him writhe in place as he panics.

His mind is already starting to fuzz back over, loosening its grip on all clarity and sensibility. Pulling him under, hypnotizing him into crawling down the slow-growing trench below his body, one so deep there’s no bottom end in sight. Just the obsidian embrace of nothingness waiting for him.

Gravity sucks him deeper inside, and within, he hears his sister’s voice, joyous, excited. She’s hugging him before her flight.

“Don’t worry, Alec, when we all reunite on the colony, Simon and I can have our wedding. You won’t miss out.”

Then his father and his mother, standing side by side, on the day he graduated from MIT.

“Your first love was always the sky… We could never get you to stop looking upwards. We’re proud of you.”

Jace laughing and bumping fists with him after one of their routine test flights.

“Always gotta one-up my scores. I’ll take you down next time.”

And young Max lying on his back next to him inside an old planetarium, both of their eyes pointed skywards, watching projections of stars rotate slowly.

“I want to see them for real one day, without all the smoke and dust in the way.”

Memories Alec latches onto, guarding them close to his heart, because he knows they’re all waiting for him. They were supposed to meet up and live peacefully in Kepler-452b –or as it’s now known as, Gaia. Start over anew. Thrive in a land that hasn’t been disintegrating before their very eyes.

Now, Alec won’t make it to Izzy’s wedding. Won’t get to watch Max grow old. Won’t get to argue with his parents, hear his mom nag at him about his love life, his father try and talk sports with him, trade barbs with Jace. None of that.

His pulse slows down, water pushing through his mouth and nose, shadows stretching further over his consciousness, before the pod door suddenly flies open, sending waves gushing out over the edge. Alec’s thoughts are still swirling in his head, and he feels like he’s breathing in thumb tacks instead of air, but he takes his first full breath in what feels like an eternity.

The ship’s human-shaped navigation droid is positioned next to him, mechanical hinges scraping together as it fixes the single red light from its oblong head at him.

“Alexander Gideon Lightwood, appointed First Captain of Urania-O by the Odyssey Research Institute, New York branch. In the event of an emergency, you were to be removed from stasis first. We have crash-landed in the nearest hospitable planet –Kepler-442b, located in the Lyra constellation.”

Alec’s still struggling to catch his breath as he climbs out of the pod. From what he can see, the other nineteen cryo-pods are all also offline and unresponsive, though the passengers have all been thawed out. That means they’re probably drowning in the pods as they speak.

There’s not enough time for Alec to process that thought as he scrambles over to them on weary, gelatinous legs and picks the pod closest to him. The external monitors surrounding it are also shut off, so he has no reading on the passenger’s vitals, and their body inside is too still. Practically catatonic already.

“Help me get them out!” he shouts at the droid.

“Affirmative.”

The droid’s heavy footfalls quickly march over to the pod, and the two of them work to push the door open, though it refuses to budge at all. Alec’s teeth grit together, muscles tensing up, fingernails pushing through the door’s creases, practically growling as he attempts again to lift the door. It still won’t budge. Which shouldn’t shock him. The pods had been designed to open electronically not manually, and some of the interior latches are too secure for him to even rattle loose.

“Fuck! How’d you even open mine?!”

The droid demonstrates by plugging one of its fingers into a port on the side to bring the pod back online long enough to open the hatch. Every latch inside releases, and water comes spilling out along the sides as the door hisses open.

The woman inside is blond, middle-aged, dressed in the standard utilitarian undergarments provided to all passengers – a short, sleeveless compression top and a pair of compression shorts.

Alec’s fingers immediately move towards the woman’s neck to feel for a pulse as the droid starts unlocking the next pod. There’s nothing. Not even the slightest hint of a throb, and Alec fights to keep his trembling fingers steady.

“No, please–!”

Before he can wrap his head around the possibility that every other passenger might be dead, a loud thumping noise erupts from pod #20. It’s offline like the rest, but whoever is inside is putting up a good fight to get out.

Alec doesn’t bother waiting for the droid as he runs towards it, looking for anything he can break the glass with. There’s a fire extinguisher hanging next to the nearest control console, one he doesn’t hesitate to grab before running back to the pod. The banging has already died down, and he’s fearing the worst. Still, he doesn’t let that stop him as he smashes the glass as hard as he can.

Pain flares along his arms and explodes around his shoulders as he strikes the glass again and again until it breaks and gives way. The body inside doesn’t rise up to steal any water, so Alec keeps smashing at it until there’s enough of an opening to drag the passenger out.

It’s a man this time, probably around Alec’s age. That’s all Alec’s brain registers as he lays the body on the ground and checks his pulse. It’s still there, but it’s faint. He’d probably been well on his way to drowning.

His palms immediately start pressing down on the passenger’s chest to perform rapid chest compressions to try and resuscitate him. He alternates between them and leaning down to clip the man’s nose and breathe into his mouth, trying to fill him with whatever oxygen he has left to give.

It’s fine. Take it all. Just don’t die on me…

His own heart is pounding fast, nerves awoken and on the edge of his skin as he presses down hard, keeps breathing. If he can save at least one person– please don’t die.

He can feel the man’s chest quiver under his hands, and he keeps pressing down, fastens their mouths together, exhales everything he has inside his own lungs until he starts to get light-headed. A few more pods have been opened, but Alec can only focus on giving CPR to one person at a time.

Several more chest pumps later, and the man eventually jolts awake with an abruptness that catches Alec off-guard. The man then twists to the side and starts coughing violently and vomiting out water.

“Are you okay?” Alec asks him.

A single nod is his answer, and Alec lets him catch his breath while joining the droid in removing the next body from pod #3, one that also has no pulse. It’s an older man, whose skin is already sickly-pale and slightly decayed, meaning he probably died long before they crashed. It’s not unheard of that some bodies simply don’t make it through the long cryo-sleep.

The rescued passenger from pod #20 slowly pushes himself onto his feet. “How can I help?” he wheezes out, still looking disoriented and barely conscious.

“We need to get these open as fast as we can,” Alec tells him.

The man nods and tosses the abandoned extinguisher towards Alec before running to find something for himself. He comes back with a large ax, which probably came from the utility room near the bridge. With it, he manages to make quick work of the next pod and tug the body free. A young woman –barely over eighteen from the looks of it.

“No pulse,” he reports before attempting to perform CPR on her like Alec did to him.

There’s not enough time for Alec to quiz him on his training and credentials as Alec pulls out more bodies and tries to see if any of them are even the slightest bit responsive, but it’s already been too long since they were thawed out and submerged. The average person can usually only hold their breath for a minute to a minute and a half. He’s sure more time than that has already passed, and chances are, even if they do resuscitate the other passengers, the passengers might wind up with serious brain damage.

Between the two of them and the droid, they eventually free up the eighteen other passengers and lay their bodies out side by side after several failed attempts at CPR. They all look like ghosts already, skin removed of life, heat, and color, eyes drawn shut, limbs not even twitching slightly. The only other survivor with him looks absolutely grief-stricken as he sinks tiredly to his knees, and Alec isn’t sure what to say or do to make him feel better.

His body is feeling just as beaten and exhausted, barely able to hold itself up, but sheer will keeps him standing. He’s still the captain. Still has to be the one to remain calm and focused even if the backs of his eyes are burning wildly with unshed tears.

Alec forces himself to lay a hand on the stranger’s shoulder to try and offer some vague sense of comfort, and the other man’s muscles jerk a little from the touch. “Did you know any of them?”

The man shakes his head. “My friends and colleagues were on the ships ahead of us.”

That doesn’t give Alec any relief. Just because the two of them didn’t know any of these passengers, it doesn’t mean they weren’t other people’s spouses, parents, siblings, or children.

And Alec had let them all die.

He’s not even sure how. The ship had a pre-programmed trajectory, the same as all the other passenger ships. They shouldn’t have run into any kind of interference on the way. Not when the previous flights had all used the same complex navigation systems to reach the colony safely.

It had to have been an equipment failure somewhere. The power could have malfunctioned due to an unplanned solar flare or they could have collided with space debris –maybe even skirted too close to the electromagnetic field of another planet or celestial body, which could have caused some kind of programming error. If Alec can get the power on the ship back online fully, he can review the whole flight log and check.

But he can’t move past the thought that he fucked up. He fucked up, and eighteen people are dead because of him. It’s all his fault. He was supposed to get them to the colony safely, and they could have at least been spared if the pods had opened correctly.

His body finally gives into the urge to crumble, collapsing next to the other passenger as he cups his own face. Tries to breathe. His lungs feel like they’re being crushed in someone’s iron grip, and he can’t stop wheezing.

A few tears slip free, and his muscles shudder hard, unable to keep it together like he knows he should. Unable to stay in control. The constant reminder that it’s all his fault walls his brain in on all sides, slowly moving inwards, making it hard to think of anything else. It should have been him who died. He had only been saved because he was the captain –the first in line to be rescued in case of an emergency. That’s the standard protocol for all flight missions, programmed into each droid’s internal processing core. It had only been doing as commanded.

The fact that the man next to him had survived at all is nothing short of a miracle. He should have been dead with the rest of them.

“...How?” Alec asks, his voice withered to shreds. He glances at the man’s face, finding his eyes beneath his damp fringe, noting their deep brown color for the first time. “How…did you make it? You would have been last if you didn’t start banging.”

The man’s eyes widen a little, like he’s also realizing at that moment that he could have very easily joined the other corpses. “I used to do a lot of freediving… I can go up to seven minutes without a breathing apparatus.”

Talk about luck. Alec’s sure if he had stalled a moment longer, he’d be completely alone right now. Alone and mourning over nineteen dead bodies.

Another shuddered breath leaves him too fast, his vision spotting at the edges until a hand slowly moves over his, the touch tentative but obviously aiming to give him comfort.

“Hey,” the man murmurs, his voice just as shaky. “It’s okay. Because of you, I’m alive.”

It’s the only consolation to all of this –that Alec had managed to save just one person. Although, he can’t really attest to how ‘saved’ either of them are at the moment. They’re not even in the solar system they’re supposed to be in, and the ship already looks like it probably needs significant repairs. He imagines they’re running on the barest hints of power at the moment, otherwise they’d be in the dark right now, freezing and running out of oxygen.

Whatever functions of the back-up generator still remain should have theoretically been sending power to the pods as well, and Alec will have to check to see why they aren’t as soon as he puts himself back together. As it is, he can barely stomach being alive at the moment even if it’s not the first time he’s experienced loss. The difference is that he feels more directly responsible this time.

The hand on top of his clenches with a little more pressure. “Just breathe… I know it’s a lot to handle right now, but you need to breathe.”

“I can’t,” Alec pants. “I can’t.”

The stranger abruptly shifts positions so that they’re facing one another, his warm palms closing around Alec’s face. “Look at me. Focus on me. What’s your name?”

Alec tries to concentrate on the face in front of him as it blurs and distorts. The eyes are the most hyper-vivid part of the other passenger, the warmth cradled inside reminding Alec of heated chocolate being slowly stirred. Alec doesn’t think he’s ever come across anyone who could express so much with so little.

Before he can answer, the droid pipes up with: “Alexander Gideon Lightwood, appointed First Captain of Urania-O by the Odyssey Research Institute (also known colloquially as the ORI), New York branch. Graduated at the top of his class from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a PhD in Aerospace Engineering, born September 9th–”

Fearing the droid is about to lay out his entire personal file to someone Alec has only just met, he quickly intervenes. “I can answer him myself!”

The stranger’s lips twitch at his response. “A pleasure to meet you, Alexander. I am Magnus Bane, PhD from Brown University in Molecular Biology, Cell Biology, and Biochemistry. Born December 8th… I’ll let you ruminate on the year.”

If Alec weren’t busy trying to concentrate on breathing normally, he’d correct Magnus about his preferred form of address, but it’s the least of his worries at the moment. He’s more relieved that Magnus hadn’t been one of those billionaires who cut through the long wait list to get off Earth by sending exorbitant donations to the ORI. Generally speaking, those chosen as passengers tend to either be said billionaires, employees working for the ORI, or field experts to aid in Gaia’s exploration and colonization before they allow the general population to start migrating from Earth. Alec’s whole family had signed on for the Urania-series of missions out of New York, and Alec had made sure everyone else went ahead of him before leaving Earth on the last mission just because he had a lot of work left to finish to prep for the next series of voyages that would follow Urania.

For safety reasons, each ship can only carry twenty passengers aboard at a time, and because the hyper-accelerated speeds required to traverse that distance in a reasonable amount of time are more than the human body can endure, all passengers are put in cryo-sleep to keep their vital functions stable. The trip also takes about four and a half years in which the body is placed into a suspended state, neither growing, transforming, nor aging until it’s thawed out.

His family were closer to the front of the line for the Urania-series and will probably touch down in Gaia in about three and a half years while Alec… Alec is trapped in the middle of nowhere with a droid and a scientist. He’s not even sure how he’s going to get them back on course, considering they crashed all the way in a different constellation.

“Magnus,” he finally repeats after a moment, trying desperately to calm his panic attack rather than allow it to worsen by over-analyzing their situation from a logical perspective. “The droid said the emergency landing protocol selected the nearest hospitable planet when we started to experience technical malfunctions, but it’s hard to gauge how hospitable it is. ORI scouted a lot of possibilities back when they were looking for potential candidates for colonization and ultimately chose Gaia because the years are roughly the same in length as Earth and because of its ecology. You couldn’t find a better replica for Earth.”

Magnus nods as he slowly withdraws his hands from Alec’s face. “So you’re saying we may have landed on one of the rejected options.”

“They were programmed as back-ups into each ship’s navigation systems, so that’s my best guess for where we ended up.”

As Alec wasn’t awake for the crash itself, he can’t really say with any certainty. He still doesn’t even know what went wrong to lead them into requiring an emergency landing.

“The good news,” Magnus tells him, “is that we had to have landed on a hard surface, otherwise, we’d be plummeting right now. And also that we had to have landed in a fairly safe environment, atmospheric-wise, otherwise we’d be dead.”

That’s true. Though the ORI ships can take a lot of abuse from being out in space, there are some toxic environments that would burn up their exterior badly upon descent. He and Magnus wouldn’t have been able to survive penetrating the atmosphere, let alone landing, if they’d been on a planet with Venus’ level of volatility.

“Would you be able to tell exactly how safe the atmosphere is?” he asks Magnus in return.

“Of course. I brought some of my equipment with me onboard. I’d just need to step out at some point to collect samples. Assuming, stepping out wouldn’t instantly kill me.”

Right. Alec has to start trying to get the ship back online to check what their situation is exactly on the outside and to do more than wallow in grief and self-loathing. There’s still one person left to protect and to safely lead to the new colony. He can’t afford to give up now, not when Magnus is depending on him to reach his friends and family.

It’s still his responsibility to do what he can to save the mission, and the passengers are always the first priority. He can mourn the dead when they’ve both reached their destination.

“Don’t push yourself to do too much at once.” Magnus interrupts his train of thought as though he can already tell where Alec’s head is going. “Take all the time you need to cope and clear your mind. You’ll think better if you’re not over-stressed.”

Even if he had the energy to protest, Alec knows Magnus is right. He can’t afford to make any more mistakes, well aware Magnus’ life is now solely in his hands. Plus, his family will be waiting for him in Gaia. His sister promised she wouldn’t hold the wedding ceremony until he arrived just so they all could celebrate together, and he doesn’t want to make her stall forever.

He takes another calm, steadying breath before nodding.

Breathe, Alec… just breathe…
