Telhub was more than a ship. More than a transportation facility. It was alive, it’s beating core constructed of immense electric systems buzzing and snapping as the masses of multicolored alien creatures hurriedly made their ways though it’s endless terminals. All of them were in search of the gate of the portal system that was supposed to take them to where they were supposed to be at the exact time they were supposed to be there. This was supposed to be Telhub’s purpose, fulfilled solely by Argon, the master computer who powered the entire facility, his leagues of anthropomorphic service robots, and a team of two very, very dedicated employees.

One of them was currently alone in a workshop, many floors below the central terminal. In the center of the bizarrely-organized space stood a green, lizard-like alien with short curved horns and a mane of cotton-candy-like pink hair. This strange, colorful alien was Neo, the last organic creature that Telhub employed. He had lived at Telhub his entire life, having been found abandoned there as a baby by two of the thousands of former employees, and he took much pride in the work he had done there. So much so that even after his adopted family moved on from Telhub to another planet, he chose to stay behind.

Currently his four jet-black eyes were intensely focused as he took a deep breath and slowly bent down to continue his work. He was repairing a rather large security camera screen, nothing too complicated. However he knew that the project’s completion would require the installation of a new Vigorite battery. Vigorite was a type of energy-generating stone and was used to power nearly every last machine in Neo’s galaxy as he knew it. Though not dangerous unless destabilized, Neo still took extra effort to ensure both his and the crystal’s safety. He began lifting the quarter-sized crystal with two tongs and was nearly successful in lowering it down into it’s port when suddenly the door was flung open and an animated voice called out:

“Neo! Hey Neo, I want to show you something!”

Neo jolted upwards in surprise, hitting his head on a hanging lamp in the process, and felt the crystal slip from his grasp and fall to the cluttered work table. Immediately he turned and saw a familiar frame in the doorway.

There stood Helios, a purple humanoid robot and another long-time Telhub employee. He and Neo had been assigned as partners decades ago and almost nothing had changed since then, aside from the fact that they had become romantic partners in that time as well. Currently his tube-like arms were outstretched and holding a piece of sketch paper that he seemed enthusiastic to display. However, upon seeing Neo’s reaction he shrunk a bit and asked

“Oh sorry, did I scare you?”

“No no, I’m good, I’m good.” Neo said in a strained voice as he grasped the part of his horns he had just bashed against the now-broken lamp. He felt around for where the crystal fell and placed it into a pocket on his belt.

“What did you have to show me?” He asked.

“This! A traveler just gave it to me. Isn’t it amazing?” Helios said, handing the paper to Neo.

Neo took the paper and saw that it was detailed with an incredibly impressive sketch of the interior of Telhub’s oldest terminal, one of the most crowded areas in the facility.

“Oh, that’s the main gate, isn’t it? Wow, did someone actually draw this? It's so realistic.”

“Yeah! They were from Benthos-9. They gave it to me because they thought the lighting didn't come out as they wanted it. I can't tell, it still looks amazing, don't you think?”

“Yeah, they even drew all the small souvenir stuff you have hanging around your desk. And it’s not like the lighting here is that great anyways.” Neo said, glancing back at the formerly functioning lamp hanging over his desk.

“Hah, how would you know anything about the lighting in the main gates?” Helios teased. “Aside from repairing portals you never leave your workshop. You know we live in a teleportation center right? You’ve got access to travel the entire galaxy but you spend all your time in this deep dark studio surrounded by broken things.”

“Well if you’re not interested in this deep dark studio I’m sure there’s lots more interesting things happening back at your work station right now.” Neo replied playfully.

“True, Xenon’s probably up there already filing a thousand complaints to Argon about me being absent and how it’s your fault somehow. Guess I can’t blame you for sticking down here.”

“Ugh, Xenon...” Neo said, with a tone of intense displeasure. “He just does all that because he hates that I’m head mechanic. And since we're partners I think he hates you by association, sorry.” Neo complained apologetically. “I dunno what he’s thinking, he’s only been doing his job for what, four or five decades, and he think’s more experienced than me!”

Just as he finished his thought, the intercom crackled to life and a robotic voice announced:

“Attention! Worker 26693 station 4 in sublevel control room c, your presence is needed on terminal A!”

“Sounds like you’re getting called up again, want me to come with you?” Helios asked

“Yeah, but aren’t you technically still on your shift?”

“Yeah, technically. Come on, lets go.” Helios replied enthusiastically, already walking out the door.

The two then exited the workshop and boarded the elevator leading to gate 1. As they were going up, the hundreds of aliens making their way through the facility were visible through the elevator’s see-through energy walls. Neo glanced down at them, scanning for what might be the technicial issue that he had likely been called in to fix. He couldn’t detect any, and once the elevator had reached gate 1, Helios and Neo made their way through the crowd to a tiny, familiar office.

This office belonged to Krypton, leader of the service department of Telhub and the voice who had spoken over the intercom. The door was small, unassuming, and surrounded by a variety of old, beaten-up travel safety posters. It certainly didn’t look like it would belong to one of the few beings who made sure Telhub remained functional. They attempted to knock but found that the door lifted up as soon as they approached. In the office they saw Krypton, a blue, humanoid robot with many floating appendages, all of which were currently occupied by papers and communication devices. Her face screen was glitching, a nervous tick she displayed often, as she was very often nervous, and she was so engulfed in her work that she did not look up as Helios and Neo entered.

“Krypton, how’s it-” Helios began but was immediately interrupted by another robot blocking his way.

“What is your business with Kryp-ton?” It asked in a harsh monotone voice. The bipedal robot had a very simple blue form, and Helios recognized it as one of the Kryptonites, a group of non-sentient robot workers controlled by Krypton herself.

“Ah, we just got a notification that-“ Helios started but was cut off again as Krypton dropped everything she was working on and sprinted over.

“Oh no, s-sorry!” Krypton stammered as she deactivated the odd kryptonite. “I-I’ve been having problems with the Kryptonites all day, I t-think something’s messed up their programming. Sorry about that.”

“It’s okay, really. How’s it going?” Helios asked gently.

“Ah, not great. There’s been a lot of m-malfunctioning service hardware today. I think Radon’s AI files have been mixed in with mine, and you know how h-hostile his Radonite team can be.” She said, still stuttering but calming down a bit. “But of course Radon’s far too busy with his ‘security protocols’ to help me. Though that’s pretty typical these days. Plus a bunch of portals have been malfunctioning lately and none of us can figure out why. And by “us” I mean “me” because all Radon has been helping with is this big presentation for Argon on why his security robots need more lasers.”

“Is that why you called us up? We can help you with that.” Neo asked, attempting to cheer the stressed android up.

“Hm? Oh n-no, Xenon is the one who needs you. I’ll be fine here, probably.” She replied, projecting a blue translucent screen out in front of her and skimming through the notifications it displayed. “Xenon told me to n-notify you to meet him on boarding ramp 1Z. It's portal has a-apparently been down for a while now so you should probably bring your t-toolbox with you if you plan on making repairs.”

“My toolbox? Uh...” Neo mumbled to himself, silently cursing how often he made the mistake of leaving it behind.

“I’ve got you, here it is.” Helios said as he flipped open a piece of his chest plate and pulled out a bulky blue bag with the number 26693 stitched onto it.

“How did you know I was going to forget that?”

“We’ve been together for 99 years, I saw it coming.” He replied, smiling warmly.

Neo thanked him but was slightly concerned at how predictable his bad memory was becoming.

“I've never heard about any problems with 1Z before now. Why does Xenon always tell me this kind of thing so late?” Neo said with annoyance.

“Hate to be the bearer of bad n-news, guys. To be honest, I've never much liked working with Xenon either...”

“Yeah, I mean if he really wanted to help me he'd stop hovering over me all the time. He gets frustrated way too easy!” Neo ranted

“And he's so sarcastic too... and angry... and mean. It's n-not great.”

“Well, we’d better get going if we want to get that over with. But hey, if you want we can come back and help you with this later.” Helios said,

“Oh, that’d be great. Haha ha ha. Ha. I'm so glad I still have you two working for the service department because I seriously cannot remember the last time I was able to actually enjoy something that wasn't related to work or portals or all of these travelers constantly coming up to me and saying things and asking me where to go and where their terminal is and what time our departures are and whether or not I think that everything is working correctly or not and if I like working here because every day I ask myself that question too and every day I come closer to not knowing how to answer it! I mean, right?”

As the blue robot spoke her face began glitching more violently and her voice slowly ascended into a strained, high pitched tone.

“Oh... okay. So terminal 1Z then?” Neo said with no idea how to continue the conversation.

“Yep! Saaafe travels!” She said with a stiff, unnatural smile plastered on her face screen.

Helios and Neo exited quickly, making their way down the long corridor leading to terminal 1Z. After a moment Helios said

“Do you... think she’ll be okay in there by herself?”

“I think so. Besides, what could we do? At the end of the day we’re probably just better off doing the work she assigns us. And we can come back later.”

“I guess you’re right.” Helios replied, though he still wasn’t fully convinced.

The pair continued down the massive corridor, now crowded with many colorful aliens carting luggage about and chattering endlessly. On their left was a vast wall covered in framed images of the Telhub crew members of the past. It served as a display celebrating the employee of the year for each year of Telhub’s 4 centuries of operation. However, Neo being the only non-robot still employed, his image comprised the majority of the later half-century.

They soon were stopped again, this time by another robot who resembled Krypton slightly in composition but was far more bulky and had a purple tint.

“Hey you two. Where’re we heading today?” He said in his usual deep voice and self-centered affectation.

“Oh, hey there Radon, just going to, uh...” Neo began

“Boarding ramp 1Z.” Helios finished.

“Right, 1Z. I was called there by Krypton a few minutes ago.”

“Apparently Xenon wants to see us there.”

“1Z huh? Never heard of it! But then again, im usually only working in the real high security areas. Gotta be protecting this place and everything you know!”

“Okay... well, see you later then.” Neo said uncomfortably, again not knowing how to continue the conversation.

“See you, I'm late for an appointment anyways. I'm displaying a prototype of a new gun attachment I designed to Argon. Here's my pitch, two words: Lasers and More of them.”

“Yeah, uh, good luck with that.”

They continued onward, with the crowd thinning out the further they ventured down the hall. This wasn’t surprising, as most of the portals at the furthest Z terminal were either rendered non-operational by years of extended use or left unfinished by the previous owner of Telhub.

“Hm, when’s the last time we were called to work on a portal all the way down here? None of this seems familiar...” Helios said. He then noticed that Neo still seemed slightly irritated and he asked him what was wrong.

“Eh, I don’t really like Radon. He’s worked here for the last 6 decades and he still refers to me as “the green one”. How hard is it to remember someone’s name when you have unlimited memory storage and five other sentient coworkers?” Neo ranted, feeling under appreciated.

“I understand, he’s not my favorite either. I can't believe Argon gave him a whole fleet of those Radonite robots to command. He’s not the most reasonable person, you know.”

“Yeah, someone should probably tell Radon that this is a transportation center and not a military platoon.”

Helios and Neo continued to walk and eventually passed one alien lounging on a bench, seemingly unconcerned with the action of the main gates. It was short, with teal skin and sharp, square features and was engulfed in working on a foreign looking computer. They likely had ventured this far to escape the constant noise and crowds of the central terminals so Helios and Neo didn’t bother to question them.

However, as soon as the two were out of earshot, the alien made the cataclysmic error of leaning against a trash can and accidentally tipping it over. It scrambled to pick the can up but saw that it was too late as three enormous Radonites in the area suddenly activated and surrounded the terrified alien. The alien, who was far smaller than it’s attackers, backed up terrified with its hands in the air. The Radonites prepared to apprehend the alien anyway and, realizing it’s chance to escape, the alien dashed down the hallway away from the scene with the three Radonites in pursuit.

“At least Krypton is nice.” Helios said, oblivious to what had just gone down behind him. “I just wish she wasn’t so stressed all the time, she doesn’t deserve it.”

“Yeah, and to be fair Radon is still a hundred times more bearable than Xenon...”

Suddenly, a smug voice from further in the darkness of the terminal replied
“Maybe so, but I also outrank you vastly so I'd watch your mouth, technician.”