Heels hitting the floor, my mother puts a metal comb through my hair. The teeth of the comb sometimes collide with my scalp, making me cringe at the feeling. My cringing doesn't distract her though, she is completely focused on my hair. A few minutes pass as she finally stops combing my hair and passes me a small compact mirror. I take a peek at my reflection but that's all. Mother looks at me with her eyebrows furrowed.

"Relax honey. Trust me, you have nothing to worry about. I think we both know which faction you're likely to get." A bright smile beams from my mother's face when she says that. Truth is, she isn't wrong. She and I both know that I am likely to get the faction of my origin, Erudite. I don't know if I'm supposed to be happy with that or not. I answer her with "I know. Sorry." All she does is nod her head. "I'll get my car ready to take you to school."

***

I hop into the car and wave to mother and then she sets the autopilot for the school. I bite the inside of my lip. No matter what she has said to me this morning, I'm still feeling anxious. The rules state that we are not allowed to prepare for the test in any way. My thoughts come to a halt as the autopilot puts on the breaks. I open the door and get out of the car and it starts driving away, back to Erudite Headquarters.

I make my way over to my faction and wait to be let inside the building. We have to stand beside our factions and we are not allowed to mix with others until later on in the day. It's the same every time we go to school.

My faction falls into complete silence. Being slightly puzzled, I look around. To the left of us, members of Abnegation start lining up with there heads looking down on to the floor. The Erudite and the Abnegation have never really got along. Abnegation people think us Erudite are self-indulgent and Erudite think Abnegation are selfish. It is pretty much a constant battle between the two factions.

Soon enough, the loud and obnoxious Dauntless arrive and we make our way into the school building.

***

An Erudite teacher gives the usual speech for aptitude testing. Well, at least from what I have read it is similar to the original speech. The teacher calls out names for two people from every faction to take them to the testing rooms.

"Jen Matthews," She says, loud and clear. I inhale and exhale and make my way over to her and go into the testing room. Cautiously walking in, the door shuts behind me and automatically locks itself. After the fright from the door, I glance over the room. There is a chair in the middle with electrodes at either side of the headrest. An Abnegation woman stands at the computer, typing away and preparing some sort of chemical vial in a small glass. I take a seat on the chair and calm myself.

The woman from Abnegation finally talks "Hello. My names Natalie and I'll be administering your aptitude test today." She smiles after concluding her sentence to which I smile back, she seems nice. "You should expect to go through a series of simulations that will ultimately tell me what faction is best.." She pauses mid-sentence "Here, drink this." I take the glass from her hand the vial is a translucent blue. I sniff it, before forcing myself to drink it. My eyes feel drowsy within seconds and poof. The room I was in is gone and I'm left in darkness.

***

My eyes flutter open at their own pace and I wake in the testing room. Looking over to Natalie, I see a small grin, as she types at the computer again. As an Erudite, I am curious so I ask "What were my results?" She smiles sweetly once more, before getting me to stand. "Well, you have an aptitude for Erudite.. and Abnegation, Amity and Dauntless." Now Natalie looks more on edge, her creases in her forehead tell me so. I ask one more thing "So, you are saying I'm Divergent?" Natalie just nods yes.