He was born in winter.

...or at least that’s what it felt like, evverything else before this cold empty world felt like a dream had by somebody else. The days before the very end were like a nightmare you’d have before waking. He tried to tell his dad that and he said a lot of people felt that way... but he didn’t think he understood completely and Johnny wasn’t sure how to explain

He looked at the steely gray sky in wonder, fat snowflakes falling, scarf fluttering in the cold wind.

“Johnny!” He heard his father call out in panic from the ground. Momentarily distracted he came plummeting down into the his arms.

“I told you not to do that, at least not so damn high.”

“Nuh yuk soo.” He insisted, as he thought at him: ‘The view is better up there, the snow-’

“Oh, I’m sure. It’s also better to get yourself hurt.” He said a he let him down.

‘Ung-uh...” ‘I wasn’t going to get hurt, and you’re the one who broke my concentration.

“Sure, you’re just lucky I was able to catch you.” His father said, looking uneasily down the street of the empty town as they crossed it. Even he was different, bearded a shabby, like the him in the before times were just part of a beautiful  dream. With baseball and friends, his Mom and the house, the one they'd shared with his Dad before left to live in an apartment for reasons he didn't understand. He faintly remembered him saying he might when he got older.

He remember hoping in the dream he’d come back. Now he wondered if any of it was real.

“Is everything alright?” His father asked, and he nodded, taking the man’s hand. He knew at the very least he was real even if he wasn't quite how he remembered him. He knew his Mom was real, based on the look of sorrow his Dad got when he asked about her and told him she didn’t survive the fight like they did.

“Ugula brah?” Johnny vocalised, asking: ‘I’m not thinking out loud again am I?’

“No no, you just have a look on your face.” His father smiled as he said that. He didn’t smile as much as the man in the dream unfortunately, as if the great fight he spoke of stole that too. But he’d do it despite that, usually at him or Tom.

He didn’t remember Tom from before, his father said that was because he met him when he was in Boston getting his book deal, when everything went down. He liked Tom, he cooked and he knew how to do all sorts of fun things, plus was more excitable then his father despite carrying a similar tiredness as him, like matching scars. When he first met him he thought he was was a lot older then his Dad, but it turned out it was only by a little over five years.

‘You probably think that because he’s balding, some men aren’t as lucky and start to lose their hair by their thirties.’

Tom, who been in the other room started laughing at when he said that. ‘I heard that, you better watch your mouth!’

His father grinned mischievously at that. Yes, he certain liked Tom.

”peep Ungh-la?” 'Can we see Oola?'

“Tom’s probably back at the house now and waiting for us.” 

“Ugh bah-wah!" 'But it’s on the way!'

“She’s all right, by some small miracle Oola knows how to take care of herself, and she’s damn good at it too.” 

“Unga flaf!” he spat out, protesting: 'We wont have to be long!'

His father sighed. “We’ll just stop by, alright kiddo?”

---

Trust Johnny to make a simple scourging trip eventful, he'd dipped into somewhere for a couple minutes and the kid was in the air.

He suppose he should've known things wouldn't get back to how they were... nothing would ever be how it was before, how was this any different? But still, he didn't imagine this. That Johnny would could be brought back from whatever abyss he'd been sent to, and yet still retain the characteristics of phoners. Characteristics he would probably always be affected by fact and Clay had to accept that.

It had been a little over three weeks but Clay was already getting used to the phoner babble Johnny had acquired after they taken the gamble of giving him another earful of whatever was left of the phoner virus. When he started talking again it was telepathic, projected in whoever's head he was talking to, coupled with that border line nonsensical talk he was all too familiar with, something that Clay was sure neuroscientists would come to the conclusion it had to do with a damaged speech center in the brain. Well, maybe they'd see it that way, comparing it to brain damage victims, because that would've been all they could compare it to.

But they weren't here, as far as they knew. So they couldn't, they had to come to their own conclusions. 

And of course it wasn't just phoner babble, aside from talking in people's minds he could also read them if you weren't too careful with your thoughts, and the self levitation. Perhaps that telekinesis extended to other things, time could only tell. 

He didn’t like to admit it but it had freaked him out at first, and he knew a lot of the survivors would probably feel the same.

‘Hey, he’s still your kid, you saw that, how he was looking at you right? How he was speaking to you?” Tom said after he’d followed him when he went outside to collect himself, leaning against the house. It was raining at the time and they were under an overhang.

“I know, I was hoping... it would be different, I don't know why but I hoped things would go back to how they were before.” He shook his head. “God damn I feel like a bad father, heaven knows I'm lucky things ended up.”

“You went out to find him despite every indication that he should’ve been gone. I’ll bet your stubborn ass would’ve kept looking forever if it was necessary.”

“But this is different. This is me being a whiny bitch."

Tom scoffed a little, leaning against the building so they were shoulder to shoulder. "You know, my mother and I didn't exactly get along with very well, but she did give me a bit of very good advice: You're allowed to have nasty thoughts and feelings, but you just have to deal with them in a way that doesn't hurt people. I'd say stepping out for a bit is a decent way of dealing."

"Right, sure..." He said with tired dismissive smile. 

"That was when I was a kid of course, she didn't exactly keep her own advice when I came out after college."

Clay burst into laughter at that, before tusking in dismay at himself for doing that, taking Tom's hand,kissing the knuckles sympathetically. "Geez, that's fucking dreadful Tom..." he muttered against them, gazing into his eyes

"Long past... long gone." Tom held his gaze, smiling kindly at him, reaching up to touch his distraught face. “We’re gonna get through this. We haven’t let those bastards best us yet.”

“What about the others?”

“He’s your fucking kid. We’re gonna hunker down for winter, and then we’ll go home... and they’ll love him alright?”

Trust Tom not to take any shit, but in a nice way.

He was getting used to the nonsense babble. What he wasn't prepared for was the loneliness it had created for Johnny, almost an otherness, and from that the longing to find someone like them that shared that otherness. And for Johnny that meant a nack for finding stray phoners.

Most of those attempts were disappointing, for one they learned they had in fact gotten lucky with Johnny, at his insists they tried 'reprograming' a few like they had with him. Most they didn't improve, or in the last case they made it worse.

Johnny didn't them to try  anymore after that.

But then they found Oola, who they didn't even need to offer any assistance. She was of her own person, in a matter of speaking

Clay didn't know who'd she'd been before, but Clay assumed she'd been a housewife of some sort, around Sharron's age specifically. Which Clay imagined was particularly relevant to how quickly Johnny had gotten attached to her. Sure she didn't look like Shannon specifically, being fifteen to twenty pounds heavier with flaming red hair tied back in a bun that was more like a loose permanent nest of tangles.

But regardless appearance differences, in a previous life he imagined she was very motherly. The kind who made lunches before school, helped them with school projects, maybe had a mini van depending how many she had.

Now she'd been reduced to looking like most other phoners, including their habits. For instance when they first encountered her she'd been eating a deer in the middle of what he imagined used to be a picturesque street.

"Rast!" she'd hissed at them, blood down the front of her housecoat. He wasn't sure which scenario was worse: if she's found the thing dead already or killed it herself.

'Maybe it was on it's last legs?'  Johnny offered when he remarked on it later on. He suppose he should've known how Johnny would be about this by that, but how could he have guessed?

Johnny ran ahead when they got close to the garage where Oola stayed.

"Hey, wait for me champ!" Clay called ahead, but the kid didn't listen. Despite him hurrying ahead he took a moment, looking down the road, where the snow was starting to collect  on the black asphalt and just wanting to go home. Well, not home precisely, he wasn't quite sure it they could consider it that yet missing their friend's something fierce, but it was where Tom was waiting and that was good enough. Good enough to brave out the winter anyway.

He soldiered forward where Johnny had disappeared into the backyard to look for Oola. When Clay got there there he was faced with a greenhouse that was roughly the size of a medium sized shed, Oola's greenhouse. He could see Johnny greeting Oola, her reaction excited, crowing in phoner nonsense as they hugged. Despite his apprehension, Clay smiled at the exchange, know how much it meant to Johnny.

When Clay stepped in the doorway Oola, dressed in a different housecoat then he remembered her wearing last time to his surprise, stepped in front of Johnny and bellowed out: 'g'nast! Nast!'

'She said...'

"I could hear what she said too." Clay said flatly. It had been 'Astard! turd!'

She babbled as she puttered around the green house, cluttered with figurines she'd must've found places that reminded him of those candle lit catholic shrines. Everything from garden gnomes to precious moments characters to baby dolls.

"Amble somble." Johnny said with a little shrug as he picked up a little jointed ceramic teddybear. 'Sorry, she says she doesn't want you in here still.'

"Still doesn't trust me huh?" Clay said. "You told here I'm your dad right?"

'Don't think it helped much.'

"Well I won't come in then, I'll just sit out here and wait. But remember-"

'I know, we need to go soon'

"I don't want Tom to worry." Clay insisted.

After a drawn out goodbye, one where Oola pressed the teddy bear figurine he'd been looking at in his hands insistently, him and Johnny continued on thier way home.

He smelled it before he came inside, some type of stew Tom had started before they'd left.

Tom's face lit up  when they came into the kitchen lit by a couple of kerosene lamps and what was left of the light outside. "Everything go well?"

"Fantastic, we found some more fuel for the lamps." He said, lifting the basket he carried before setting it on the ground before moving to embrace Tom and kiss him.

"Blyuck..." Johnny said as he passed them to go to his room. Clay could feel Tom smile in amusement before breaking away, still holding him though.

"That he has no trouble vocalizing." He said with mild annoyance.

"Course he can, he's a kid." Tom insisted, before looking at him with concern. "Everything alright?"

"Dandy." They pulled apart, Clay glancing around for something to before starting to putting away the clean dishes, taking care to put asides three bowls and cutlery for the stew. "We visited Oola today. Well... Johnny did anyway. I was just there."

Tom grinned. "She still hates you doesn't she?"

"Hate is a strong word, but yes, with a burning passion.: He said quietly. "...I still don't get it, what did I do?"

"I don't know, she seems to like me alright." Tom boasted 

"She tolerates you." Clay corrected. "Only because you bring cake."

"It was cornbread, and that was once."

"Well you make some pretty damn good corn bread." Clay said, hugging him from behind and kissing the back of his neck.

Tom giggled in a way he could imagine he was turning red, playfully elbowing Clay away. "Stop that, I'm busy..."

"Rain check?" Clay stepped away, taking the time to remove his coat.

"Rain check." Tom opened the baking portion of the stove and pulled out the corn bread. They had it fairly often but it certainly was good.

"The wood cooking seems to give a different quality to it." He commented when they sat down to eat shortly after. "A good quality I mean."

"But is it worth it?"

"Could be worse, stove's nice, we found all that wood, plus it heats things up nicely."

As Johnny ate, staring at the snow falling in piles now, he looked up at them and asked: 'Do you think Oola's cold? It can't be very warm in her greenhouse at night, and I don't know if she has a coat...'

"We've seen her in the garage next to the greenhouse, she can go in there." Tom insisted.

'What if she forgets she can?' 

"Oola is a tough cookie, if she can change her housecoat she'll have the sense to seek cover." 

Tom choked on his food a bit. "She did what now?"

"You know that grubby sky blue thing with the daisies she was wearing? She's in a red gingham one now." Clay answered.

'She still get's confused though, she keeps calling me Billy. That's not close to Johnny at all.'

"Getting names wrong is minor, she's a miracle as it is, I'm sure she knows to seek shelter when she needs to." Tom said gently.

'But can we check on her tomorrow, just in case?'

"We can, sure. We can all go." Tom looked expectantly at Clay.

"Of course." Clay agreed.

---

"I don't know how you do it, but you're so much better at wording things. Especially when it comes to the phoner topic, makes me feel like such an asshole in comparison."

They were getting ready for bed and Tom gave him a look over his shoulder. "I can't tell if that's a compliment or an accusation."

He was sitting on the end of the bed, and smiled back at him apologetically as he pulled on a fresh pair of socks. "It's me being insecure, and wondering how the hell your doing it better then me."

"I don't know, maybe it's because I don't have a horse in this race, maybe you're feeling more pressure then me."

"...Maybe." Clay grumbled as Tom sat next to him, arms curling around his. "I'm still adjusting really."

"I gotta say I've never known the kid as anything else, I have the privilege of not having to adjust from however things used to be."

"How things used to be... Johnny calls it 'the dream'. Like something he woke up from... that's hard to shake. Like everything before never happened."

"But aren't you proof that it wasn't?"

Clay turned to face him, smiling a bit. "Decent point as any."

"Damn straight it is..." Tom insisted back and they kissed, the snow blowing outside in a way that he dreaded braving tomorrow but made him glad to be inside with Tom for now, and he slid an arm around him

"How about that rain check?" He murmured, kissing down his neck, and Tom chuckled.

"...Thought you'd never ask."

It was surprising how quickly he'd gotten used to this too, how he'd grown to yearn for the other man, for the time they'd spent alone at the end of the day where he didn't have to think about what the uncertain future held ahead. Maybe it was because he felt so comfortable with Tom, partially because he never felt pressured to go anywhere he didn't want to. 'the heavier stuff' one might say

"It's what anyone would do." Tom replied when he'd commented on it after they'd fooled around, curled up together under the covers. 

'I don't think that's all that true... but just mean not asking, I mean I don't feel pressured."

"Well maybe I don't care about that fucking shit." Tom said, voice scorning the very idea. '"It's overrated, besides... why shouldn't getting off with you like this be enough? Seeing you comfortable and happy?"

That was something to think about. '"I don't know how any of this shit works" he said, to which Tom scoffed at.

"And you think I, the man whose spent the past twenty some years focusing on my career and being terrified of AIDS have any better of an idea then you?"

Clay couldn't help but grin at that, rolling partially on top of him, pressing his lips to his. "Right, your career, I remember you in your tweed suit... bet you were such a nerd before all of this."

"You know you liked that suit... besides, I hardly think the comic book artist has room to talk." Tom retorted tiredly.

"Graphic novel artist." He insisted before growing serious again, resting his head on Tom's shoulder. "I'm sorry about that... AIDS is some fucking scary bullshit." I'm glad you're still here. He wanted to add, but that felt too sentimental, to close to something he was still trying to come terms with. 

Tom stroked lazy circles on his back, saying: "You're telling me," before they fell asleep together in their warm cocoon of blankets. 